feat(curriculum): add lab playlist remix engine (#65515)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/blocks/lab-playlist-remix-engine/6976db7ecfa770bf21307b20.md

# --hints--

You should have a function named `flattenPlaylists`.

You should return an empty array from `flattenPlaylists` when the input is not an array.

Each track returned by `flattenPlaylists` should include a `source` field that is an array like `[playlistIndex, trackIndex]`.

You should have a function named `scoreTracks`.

Each track returned by `scoreTracks` should include a numeric `score` field.

You should calculate `score` using a target BPM of `120` and this formula: `votes * 10 - Math.abs(bpm - 120)`.

You should have a function named `dedupeTracks`.

When duplicate `trackId` values exist, `dedupeTracks` should keep the earliest one (the first time it appears).

You should have a function named `enforceArtistQuota`.

`enforceArtistQuota` should ensure no artist appears more than `maxPerArtist` times by removing extra tracks while keeping the earliest ones.

You should have a function named `buildSchedule`.

`buildSchedule` should return an array of objects with the shape `{ slot, trackId }`, where `slot` starts at `1`.

You should have a function named `remixPlaylist`.

> `remixPlaylist` should call the helper functions in order to produce the final schedule.

Reviewer: if you want to try to build the page to see how it looks you need to add the codeblocks already, or the build is never going to finish
````suggestion
# --hints--

You should have a function named `flattenPlaylists`.

```js

```

You should return an empty array from `flattenPlaylists` when the input is not an array.

```js

```

Each track returned by `flattenPlaylists` should include a `source` field that is an array like `[playlistIndex, trackIndex]`.

```js

```

You should have a function named `scoreTracks`.

```js

```

Each track returned by `scoreTracks` should include a numeric `score` field.

```js

```

You should calculate `score` using a target BPM of `120` and this formula: `votes * 10 - Math.abs(bpm - 120)`.

```js

```

You should have a function named `dedupeTracks`.

```js

```

When duplicate `trackId` values exist, `dedupeTracks` should keep the earliest one (the first time it appears).

```js

```

You should have a function named `enforceArtistQuota`.

```js

```

`enforceArtistQuota` should ensure no artist appears more than `maxPerArtist` times by removing extra tracks while keeping the earliest ones.

```js

```

You should have a function named `buildSchedule`.

```js

```

`buildSchedule` should return an array of objects with the shape `{ slot, trackId }`, where `slot` starts at `1`.

```js

```

You should have a function named `remixPlaylist`.

```js

```

`remixPlaylist` should call the helper functions in order to produce the final schedule.

```js

```
````

const schedule = buildSchedule(scheduleInput);

assert.lengthOf(schedule, 3);

schedule.forEach((item, index) => {
  assert.hasAllKeys(item, ["slot", "trackId"]);
  assert.equal(item.slot, index + 1);
  assert.equal(item.trackId, scheduleInput[index].trackId);
});
```

You should have a function named `remixPlaylist`.

```js
assert.isFunction(remixPlaylist)
```

`remixPlaylist` should call the helper functions in order to produce the final schedule.

```js
const remixParams = __helpers.getFunctionParams(remixPlaylist.toString());
assert.lengthOf(remixParams, 2);
assert.lengthOf(remixPlaylist, 2);

const testPlaylists = [
  [
    { trackId: "t1", artist: "A", title: "Song 1", votes: 2, bpm: 120 },
    { trackId: "t1", artist: "A", title: "Duplicate", votes: 9, bpm: 140 }
  ],
  [
    { trackId: "t2", artist: "A", title: "Song 2", votes: 1, bpm: 110 },
    { trackId: "t3", artist: "B", title: "Song 3", votes: 4, bpm: 118 }
  ]
];

const expected = buildSchedule(enforceArtistQuota(dedupeTracks(scoreTracks(flattenPlaylists(testPlaylists))),1));

const actual = remixPlaylist(testPlaylists, 1);

assert.deepEqual(actual, expected);
```

# --seed--

## --seed-contents--

```js

> ```

Reviewer: please include a sample playlist here in the seed code

---

# --description--

In this lab, you will build a program that creates a single remix playlist from multiple playlists submitted by listeners.

Each listener provides a list of songs they want to hear. Some songs may appear more than once, and some artists may show up too many times. Your job is to work through these playlists step by step: combine them into one list, score each song, remove duplicate songs, limit how often the same artist appears, and then create a final play order.

**Objective:** Fulfill the user stories below and get all the tests to pass to complete the lab.

**User Stories:**

1. You should create a function named `flattenPlaylists` that accepts an array of playlists where each playlist is an array of objects with the following properties: `trackId`, `artist`, `title`, `votes`, `bpm`. If the input is not an array, `flattenPlaylists` should return an empty array.

    For example: `samplePlaylists = [[{ trackId: "t1", artist: "Artist A", title: "Song 1", votes: 3, bpm: 120 }, { trackId: "t2", artist: "Artist B", title: "Song 2", votes: 1, bpm: 110 }], [{ trackId: "t3", artist: "Artist A", title: "Song 3", votes: 2, bpm: 125 }]];`

> 2. `flattenPlaylists` should return a flat array of track objects, where each object includes all the original track properties plus a `source` property set to `[playlistIndex, trackIndex]` indicating where the track originated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. `flattenPlaylists` should return a flat array of track objects, where each object includes all the original track properties plus a `source` property set to an array with the playlist index and the track index indicating where the track originated.
```

---

# --description--

In this lab, you will build a program that creates a single remix playlist from multiple playlists submitted by listeners.

Each listener provides a list of songs they want to hear. Some songs may appear more than once, and some artists may show up too many times. Your job is to work through these playlists step by step: combine them into one list, score each song, remove duplicate songs, limit how often the same artist appears, and then create a final play order.

**Objective:** Fulfill the user stories below and get all the tests to pass to complete the lab.

**User Stories:**

1. You should accept an array of playlists where each playlist is an array of `{ trackId, artist, title, votes, bpm }`.

    For example: `samplePlaylists = [[{ trackId: "t1", artist: "Artist A", title: "Song 1", votes: 3, bpm: 120 }, { trackId: "t2", artist: "Artist B", title: "Song 2", votes: 1, bpm: 110 }], [{ trackId: "t3", artist: "Artist A", title: "Song 3", votes: 2, bpm: 125 }]];`

2. You should create `flattenPlaylists(playlists)` that converts multiple playlists into a single list of tracks annotated with source metadata indicating where each track originated.

> 3. You should create `scoreTracks(tracks)` that adds a score field derived from votes and BPM closeness to a target.

Reviewer 2: From what I see in tests `tracks` is an array of objects but how am I supposed to know reading these user stories? It should be clear what these functions are going to accept.

4. You should create a function named `dedupeTracks` that accepts an array of track objects as returned by `scoreTracks` and returns a new array with duplicate `trackId` entries removed, keeping only the first occurrence of each.

5. You should create a function named `enforceArtistQuota` that accepts an array of track objects as returned by `dedupeTracks` and a number `maxPerArtist`, and returns a new array where no artist appears more than `maxPerArtist` times, keeping the earliest occurrences.

6. You should create a function named `buildSchedule` that accepts an array of track objects as returned by `enforceArtistQuota` and returns a new array of `{ slot, trackId }` objects, where `slot` is a 1-based index representing each track's position in the broadcast order.

> 7. You should create a function named `remixPlaylist` that accepts an array of playlists and a `maxPerArtist` number, and returns the final broadcast schedule as an array of `{ slot, trackId }` objects, by calling `flattenPlaylists`, `scoreTracks`, `dedupeTracks`, `enforceArtistQuota`, and `buildSchedule` in order.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. You should create a function named `remixPlaylist` that accepts an array of playlists and the maximum number of allowed occurrences per artist. The function should return the final broadcast schedule as an array of `{ slot, trackId }` objects, by calling `flattenPlaylists`, `scoreTracks`, `dedupeTracks`, `enforceArtistQuota`, and `buildSchedule` in order.
```
